feat: Security dashboard Jira integration PUL-2049 HRZ-185 (#1722)
codacy/docs: docs/organizations/managing-security-and-risk.md

Each of these areas displays a count of matching items and a **Review** button to access a filtered list displaying the matching items.

![security and risk management dashboard](images/security-risk-management-dashboard.png)

## Item list

The **Security and risk management items** page displays a list of items, filtered by status and sorted by due date ascending.

> To access the item list, access the [dashboard](#dashboard) and click the **Review** button under an area of interest, based on the desired filtering.

Author: ```suggestion
To access the item list, access the [dashboard](#dashboard) and click the **Review** button in the area of interest, based on the desired filtering.
```

The following section explains how to integrate with each of the supported platforms.

=== "Codacy"

    Security and risk management always displays items opened after detecting Codacy security issues. This feature can't be deactivated.

=== "Jira Cloud"

    To install the Jira Cloud integration:

    1.  Open your organization **Security and Risk** page and click the **Configure** button. This opens the configuration page.

    1.  On the right-hand side of the page, under the Integrations list, find the Jira entry and click the **Install** button. This redirects you to Atlassian's website.

        ![Security and risk management Jira Cloud integration](images/security-risk-management-integration-jira.png)

    1.  On Atlassian's website, authorize Codacy to access your Atlassian account. Once successful, you're redirected back to Codacy.

        !!! note
            Use a Jira account with admin permissions when authorizing Codacy. This lets Codacy access all issues, since the integration inherits the permissions of the authorizing account.

>         Upon installation, Codacy automatically imports all Jira tickets that were created within the 90-day period preceding the integration and tagged with the label "security" and displays them on the item list, along with items from other sources.

Author: Thanks! I'll just mention "open" to avoid getting too detailed on Jira's status grouping. Also mentioning that the label can be case-insensitive; that's useful.

>         Jira-related items are then synchronized daily with the matching Jira issues throughout their lifecycle.

Author: Fair point. We generally avoid documenting edge-case limitations unless customers complain, but we should mention that issues open and closed on the same day won't be detected (or actually *may* not be detected, right?).

On a side note: In case we eventually need to be more precise on when we load issues, it would be more useful if data were loaded at a specific point in time for all customers, e.g. midnight GMT, and [not at the time the integration was created](https://codacy.slite.com/app/docs/gKBEl69F_4bK1Q?threadId=FAu4gAfPH7NZSo&commentId=J5vD8PVtXd-3_Y). It would be easier to document and for them to remember: I doubt anyone will remember what time it was when they integrated Jira.

Thoughts?

>         Jira-related items are then synchronized daily with the matching Jira issues throughout their lifecycle.

Reviewer: We are doing at the time the integration was created to spread the load. I don't think we will change this until we make the change for the integration to be real-time.

    To uninstall the Jira integration:

    1.  Open your organization **Security and Risk** page and click the button **Configure** to open the configuration page.

    1.  Find the Jira entry under the Integrations list and click the **Options** button (identified by three dots), then select **Uninstall** and confirm.

## Opening and closing items

!!! important
    To automatically open and close items, Codacy must detect when the vulnerabilities are introduced and fixed. The detection logic is platform-dependent and is described below.

Codacy automatically opens a security item whenever one of the configured source platforms detects a security vulnerability.

> The importance of the vulnerability defines the [priority of the item](#item-priorities-and-deadlines). In turn, the priority of the item defines a deadline to fix the vulnerability.

Author: ```suggestion
The importance of the vulnerability defines the [priority of the item](#item-priorities-and-deadlines). In turn, the priority of the item defines a deadline to fix the underlying vulnerability.
```

The Security and Risk Management item list displays a list of items, filtered by status and sorted by due date ascending.

To access the item list, access the [dashboard](#dashboard) and click the **Review** button under an area of interest, based on the desired filtering.

> To open the originating issue of an item, click the **Details** column of the item of interest.

Reviewer 2: I saw some of [your comments](https://github.com/codacy/sla-service/pull/100#discussion_r1221141447) reviewing the API and I liked the word "underlying". 😉 

Would it work here? 

```suggestion
To open the underlying issue of an item, click the **Details** column of the item of interest.
```

![Security and Risk Management item list](images/security-risk-management-item-list.png)

## Managing integrations

Integrations let you detect security vulnerabilities across a number of platforms and display them all as security items on the unified item list.

The following section explains how to integrate with each of the supported platforms.

=== "Codacy"

>     The Codacy integration is active by default and can't be deactivated.

Reviewer 2: It's weird to call "integration" if the data is in the same system. Do we (as a product) want to keep calling this an integration? 🤔

Author: That's a good point. I'm rewording this not to mention "integration", but I still believe it should appear together with other integrations since they're all conceptually the same item, i.e. "data sources".

=== "Jira Cloud"

    To install the Jira Cloud integration:

>     1.  Open your organization **Security and Risk** page and click the **Configure** button. This opens the configuration page.

Reviewer 2: Does a new page open? Or a new area appears on the same page?

Author: It's a different page with its URL that opens in the same tab. You can try here, `codacy-docs` is feature flagged: https://app.codacy.com/organizations/gh/codacy-docs/security

    1.  On the right-hand side of the page, under the Integrations list, find the Jira entry and click the **Install** button. This redirects you to Atlassian's website.

        ![Security and Risk Management Jira integration](images/security-risk-management-integration-jira.png)

    1.  On Atlassian's website, authorize Codacy to access your Atlassian account. Once successful, you're redirected back to Codacy.

        !!! note
            Use a Jira account with admin permissions when authorizing Codacy. This lets Codacy access all issues.

        Upon installation, Codacy automatically imports all Jira tickets that were created within the 90-day period preceding the integration and tagged with the label "security" and displays them on the item list, along with items from other sources.
        
        Jira-related items are then synchronized daily with the matching Jira issues throughout their lifecycle.

    To uninstall the Jira integration:

    1.  Open your organization **Security and Risk** page and click the button **Configure** to open the configuration page.

>     1.  Find the Jira entry under the Integrations area and click the **Options** button (identified by three dots), then select **Uninstall** and confirm.

Reviewer 2: Here we say "Integrations area", but above we have an "Integrations list".
Let's decide which fits best and keep consistency.

The Security and Risk Management item list displays a list of items, filtered by status and sorted by due date ascending.

To access the item list, access the [dashboard](#dashboard) and click the **Review** button under an area of interest, based on the desired filtering.

When viewing the item list:

-   To update the filtering criteria, click the **Status** or **Priority** drop-downs above the list.
-   To find out more about an item, click its **Details** column. This redirects you to a filtered view of the **Repository issues** page, showing only the item of interest.

![Security and Risk Management item list](images/security-risk-management-item-list.png)

## Managing integrations

Integrations let you detect security vulnerabilities across a number of platforms and display them all as security items on the unified item list.

The following section explains how to integrate with each of the supported platforms.

=== "Codacy"

>     Security and Risk Management always displays items caused by Codacy security issues. This feature can't be deactivated.

Author: Fair point, it feels odd to me too. Still, we have to be precise here. Codacy detects issues and opens items as a consequence of detecting the issue. An alternative could be `opened after detecting` as below, or maybe `opened due to`. Thoughts?

```suggestion
    Security and Risk Management always displays items opened after detecting Codacy security issues. This feature can't be deactivated.
```

=== "Jira Cloud"

    To install the Jira Cloud integration:

    1.  Open your organization **Security and Risk** page and click the **Configure** button. This opens the configuration page.

    1.  On the right-hand side of the page, under the Integrations list, find the Jira entry and click the **Install** button. This redirects you to Atlassian's website.

        ![Security and Risk Management Jira integration](images/security-risk-management-integration-jira.png)

    1.  On Atlassian's website, authorize Codacy to access your Atlassian account. Once successful, you're redirected back to Codacy.

        !!! note

>             Use a Jira account with admin permissions when authorizing Codacy. This lets Codacy access all issues.

Author: Good point. I'm expanding on the reason behind this request, which can also address any user concerns about granting admin permissions (and come up with alternatives, such as creating a non-admin account but with access to all projects, I guess).

```suggestion
            Use a Jira account with admin permissions when authorizing Codacy. This lets Codacy access all issues, since the integration inherits the permissions of the authorizing account.
```

## Item priorities and deadlines

The following table defines item priorities and days to fix the underlying issue, based on the importance of the issue:

> <!-- TODO Should there be one table per integration type? Check what we do elsewhere. -->

Author: ```suggestion
```

| Item priority | Days to close | Codacy Security issue severity | Jira security issue priority |
|---------------|---------------|--------------------------------|------------------------------|
| Critical      | 30            | Critical                       | Blocker                      |
| High          | 60            | -                              | High                         |
| Medium        | 90            | Medium                         | Medium                       |
| Low           | 120           | Minor                          | Low and other                |

## Data retention

Codacy retains open items indefinitely and closed items for one year.

=== "Codacy"

>     Deleting a repository deletes all the items associated with that repository.

Author: It's actually mentioned in the line above, which should apply to all integrations, but the way it's organized probably confuses things.

I mentioned it again in the Jira tab to convey that even if open items are removed, closed items are *still* retained.

I'll look into an alternative. This is unclear.

```suggestion
    Deleting a repository deletes all the items associated with that repository.<!-- TODO clarify item deletion timeframes for each integration. The way it's organized at the moment is confusing. -->
```

## Item priorities and deadlines

The following table defines security item priorities and days to fix the associated issue, based on the importance of the issue:

| **Security item<br/>priority** | <br/>Days to close | Codacy<br/>security issue severity | Jira<br/>security issue priority |
|--------------------------------|--------------------|------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| **Critical**                   | 30                 | Critical                           | Blocker                          |
| **High**                       | 60                 | -                                  | High                             |
| **Medium**                     | 90                 | Medium                             | Medium                           |
| **Low**                        | 120                | Minor                              | Low and other                    |

> ## Data retention

Author: This section does not currently match the behavior of the product. I'm hiding it while we work on item deletion when deleting repos or uninstalling the Jira integrations.

```suggestion
<!--
## Data retention
```

Codacy retains open items indefinitely and closed items for one year.

=== "Codacy"

    Deleting a repository deletes all open items belonging to that repository.

=== "Jira Cloud"

>     Uninstalling the Jira integration removes any associated open items from the Security and Risk dashboard. Closed items are retained for one year.

Author: I'm updating this sentence to match the sentence structure of the one above. 

```suggestion
    Uninstalling the Jira integration deletes all associated open items.
```

| **High**                       | 60                 | -                                  | High                             |
| **Medium**                     | 90                 | Medium                             | Medium                           |
| **Low**                        | 120                | Minor                              | Low and other                    |

## Managing access to security and risk management

To better track and address security vulnerabilities, organization admins can extend access to security and risk management by assigning the Security Manager role to organization members.

The Security Manager role is independent of the Git provider role of an organization member and provides only the permissions necessary to monitor security vulnerabilities, following the principle of least privilege:

| Permission                                                  | Organization Admin | Security Manager           |
|-------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|----------------------------|
| Access security and risk management                         | Yes                | Yes                        |

> | Access underlying issues (Codacy repositories, Jira issues) | Yes                | Keeps original permissions |

Author: ```suggestion
| Access associated issues (Codacy repositories, Jira issues) | Yes                | Keeps original permissions |
```

| Manage integrations                                         | Yes                | Yes                        |
| Assign and revoke the Security Manager role                 | Yes                | No                         |
| All other Organization Admin permissions                    | Yes                | No                         |

To assign the Security Manager role:

> 1.  Select an organization from the top navigation bar, then **Security and risk** on the left navigation sidebar, then click the **Configure** button in the top right-hand corner of the page. This opens the **Security and risk management configuration** page.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Open your organization **Security and Risk** page and click the **Configure** button. This opens the configuration page.
```

1.  In the **Permissions** area, use the search field to find the relevant user and click the user's name.

    ![security and risk management access management](images/security-risk-management-access-management.png)

To revoke the Security Manager role:

> 1.  Access the **Security and risk management configuration** page.

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Open your organization **Security and Risk** page and click the **Configure** button. This opens the configuration page.
```

1.  In the **Permissions** area, scroll the list to find the relevant user.

1.  Click the **Revoke role icon** to the right of the user's name and confirm.

<!--
TODO Update this section once the behavior is consistent. See https://codacy.slack.com/archives/C050XTVETSQ/p1687167901474059

## Data retention

Codacy retains open items indefinitely and closed items for one year.

=== "Codacy"

    Deleting a repository deletes all open items belonging to that repository.

=== "Jira Cloud"

>     Uninstalling the Jira Cloud integration deletes all associated open items.

Reviewer: Uninstalling via Codacy UI will trigger this behavior. But if the integration is uninstalled on Jira directly Codacy will not be notified but no new data will be loaded.
